# Final Project

## I work on the "political activity"/ "disagreements in politics" part of the final report. 

In the 2020 presidential election season, social media platforms, like Twitter, have taken on a heightened role of importance in shaping citizens’ political engagement. This real-life case implies that people with diﬀerent political stands may have notable diﬀerences in how they use Twitter, and their use of Twitter and consumption of online information may at the same time make them hold radically diﬀerent political views towards a wide range of social issues. To explore the underlying dynamics of users’ ideological beliefs and opinions on both politics and everyday life, we focus on two variables representative of people’s political stands: (1) stated party aﬃliation and (2) their attitudes towards Trump’s role as President (either support or not support).

Overall, based on the results of SOMs and autoencoders, we ﬁnd clear groupings in where Twitter users stand on the issues (equality and diversity of communities, salient social issues, and feeling thermometers) both along party aﬃliation and attitudes towards Trump. The two approaches - SOMs and autoencoders - show similar patterns. More importantly, we ﬁnd that the Trump divide may be a more accurate indicator to describe political polarization among Twitter users in this era. This ﬁnding lends support to our observation that partisan voters are increasingly aligned more closely with the leader of their party than with the policy position of the party. Trump Republicans and non-Trump Republicans are diﬀerent. People’s issue positions are related to whether they hold favourable views of Trump. These ﬁndings have important implications for how scholars measure political polarization, and for our understanding of its underlying dynamic.
